So we should add fetchTasks
as a dependency here to useEffect
because you'll learn that basically
every piece of data or function,
which is set up inside of a component function,
which you are using in useEffect
should be added as a dependency.
The problem with that
and therefore you shouldn't save this file yet,
is that this would create an infinite look.
Why? Because we will call fetch tasks here
and this will then go ahead
and execute this send request function in the custom hook,
and that will then set some states.
When the states are set
the component where we use the custom hook
will be re-rendered because I explained
that when you use a custom hook, which uses state
and you use that hook in that component
that component will implicitly use that state
set up in the custom hook.
So the state configured in the custom hook
is attached to the component where you use the custom hook.
So if we call set is loading and set error here
in the send request function in the custom hook
this will trigger the app component to be re-evaluated
because I'm using that custom hook here in that component.
Now, dad, however, will then call the custom hook again
when that component is re-evaluated
and when that custom hook is called again,
I am indeed recreating the send request function
and I'm returning a new function object
and therefore useEffect will run again.
And that happens because
as I explained earlier in the course
in the behind the scenes module
functions are objects in JavaScript.
And every time a function is recreated
even if it contains the same logic,
it's a brand new object in memory
and therefore useEffect would treat it as a new value,
even if it's technically the same function
and it would re execute it.
So to avoid this, we should go to useHttp
and wrap sendRequest with use callback
which we can do also when we use a single weight in there
this is no problem.
So we import useCallback
and then wrap this function here with use callback.
Now use callback, also needs of dependency array of though,
and this dependency array
also should list everything which is being used in here.
And in my case, that is for example,
that requestConfig object
but also this applied data function which recalling.
Now this poses yet another problem though,
since that is the case, we should add request conflict
and apply data as dependencies here.
But of course, both again are objects
requestConfig as a standard JavaScript object,
apply data as a function
which you learned also is an object.
So back and the app component
where we're passing in this object and this function.
We again have to ensure that these objects
are not recreated all the time when this function runs again
which they currently would be.
So here in app component, we also should import useCallback
and wrap transform tasks here with useCallback for example,
and add our dependency array here
and here we don't have to add anything
because in here I'm not using anything external
other than set tasks which is a state updating function.
And as explained multiple times in the course,
these are guaranteed to never change.
And if this is looking cumbersome, yep.
it can be tricky to get into,
it might look like a lot of work
but it is something you're getting used to over time
and it is very logical in the end.
It is simply related to how JavaScript works after all.
Now with that we're guaranteeing
that transform tasks will not change all the time,
but this object here will
we are recreating it here all the time.
whenever the app component is re-evaluated.
So to work around that, we could look into use memo
or anything like that
to ensure that this object doesn't change all the time
or we change our accustom hook again.
Instead of accepting the requestConfig here
in the hook itself,
why don't we expect that here in the send request function
after all that is the function
which is being called with that Config.
So we could expect this requestConfig object,
not here in useHttp, but here in send request, so here.
Then we don't need to add it as a dependency here
because it's now a parameter of this wrapped function,
not an external dependency.
And therefore we got rid of this issue
and in app component, all we gotta do is take this object
with the URL and remove it here
so that transform tasks is the only function
we're passing to useHttp.
and we then go to fetchTasks
where we are sending the request in the end,
keep in mind that fetchTasks is just send requests because
of this alias in here and we pass our conflict object here.
That's something we could do.
And of course we could do something similar
with the data transformation function.
If using use call that here in app component
is too cumbersome for you if you don't like this approach.
We can get rid of that
and instead just pass transform tasks
as second argument to fetch tasks here
and not to use Http so that we called useHttp
without any arguments.
And we actually create transform tasks.
Oops, get rid of D dependencies here.
We create transform tasks like this instead of the effect,
then there's all there's no external dependency
in the effect.
And now we make sure that you useHttp
our customer who can be called without any dependencies
or without any parameters,
because we're passing the request specific configuration
and the data transformation
that should be applied after the request was sent
directly to the request.
And I showed both alternatives
because both would be viable ways of doing it.
And I also wanted to show you what the potential downfalls
or disadvantages of the other approach are.
Now, of course, we need to go to use Http
and not expect apply data here
as a parameter off the custom hook
but instead here for send request.
And with that of course, useCallback here
in our custom hook has no dependencies anymore
because all the data it's operating on
is received as parameters in the rapt functions.
We've got no external dependencies here.
And with all of that, if we go back to app.js
we now have code that should run without an infinite loop
and without any issues.
If we now go back and reload,
the tasks are still being fetched.
And again, I'm fully aware
of the fact that this can be confusing.
I hope I could still explain
why the different steps were needed.
Of course I could have shown you that final solution
right from the start,
but it is super important to understand
that there are different ways of achieving this
and the other solution wasn't bad or wrong.
This is just as solution
which minimizes the number of dependencies
makes it a bit easier to manage
but the average solution would have been fine as well.
And most importantly
I wanted to make it clear why we derived this solution now
and why I'm going with this solution now.
With all of that though,
the hook is looking good and app.js works.
But of course, the main reason
for adding the hook in the first place
was to reuse logic across components.
And here in the app component we're fine now
but we still got our new task component
where we also are sending our request.
So let's use our custom hook there as a next step.